CYCLISTIC BIKE SHARE PROJECT:
Cyclistic is a fictional company in Chicago with 600+ docking stations and 5000+ bikes. The company offers single-ride, full-day rides, and 
annual membership to its customers.
Until now, the Cyclistic marketing strategy has relied on building awareness and appealing to the general public. The Financial analysis
shows that annual memberships are more profitable than casual riders. 
Therefore, the director of marketing believes that maximizing the number of annual memberships is the key to future growth.
The data analysis team at Divvy Bike Share is tasked with a task to understand how casual riders and annual members use bikes differently.

# Cyclistic bike-share Analysis
ASK Phase:
These 3 questions will guide the marketing program and the analysis Process
1. How do annual members and casual riders use Cyclistic bikes differently?
2. Why would casual riders buy Cyclistic annual memberships?
3. How can Cyclistic use digital media to influence casual riders to become members?

Applying the EGAD framework will Justify the problem statement on  the why, what, and how.
Why(Vission) do we need to solve the problem? What(issue) do we need to do? and how(process) are we going to solve it?

Business Task: To maximize the number of annual members we need to convert casual riders into members by designing marketing strategies 
aimed at converting casual riders into yearly members.

PREPARE Phase:
The data was downloaded from https://divvy-tripdata.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html and has been made available by
Motivate International Inc. under a license.
It is stored as an Excel Workbook "12 months Cyclist Bike share.xlsx" in rows and columns. The data ROCCC. 
It's 1. reliable - it's complete and not biased
    2. Original - The data source is Original  
    3. Comprehensive - the data contain important information and lacks human error.
    4. Current - The data is updated. It data from September 2022 to August 2023.
    5. Cited - The data has been vetted and cited as a Public Dataset.

PROCESS Phase
Activities in the phase are Choosing analysis tools, Data integrity observed, Data cleaning, verification, and consequent documentation.
Data was cleaned and anomalies were removed. 
For Clarity on Different Analysis tools, SQL, Spreadsheets, and RStudio were used in this project.
A column called “ride_length.” was created. The length of each ride was calculated by subtracting the
column “started_at” from the column “ended_at” (for example, =D2-C2) and formatted as HH:MM:SS using Format > Cells >
Time > 37:30:55.
Creation of a column called “day_of_week,” and calculation of the day of the week that each ride started using the “WEEKDAY”
command (for example, =WEEKDAY(C2,1)) in each file. Formated as General or as a number with no decimals, noting that
1 = Sunday and 7 = Saturday.

There was processing done using SQL and the document is Attached.

ANALYZE Phase
In this phase, it is worth noting the following points:
1. Data Organization
2. Data Formatting
3. Surprises in the data
4. Trends and Relationship
5. How insight will help answer the business question.

A descriptive analysis was conducted on the data
Some calculations were conducted which showed a better sense of data layout. ie mean of ride length, mode of day of the week, and maximum ride length.
Few pivot tables were made. Avg ride_length for members and casuals, Avg ride length of users by day of week, and No of rides by day of week

After summarizing and describing the data, it was merged into a full-year view.

The merged workbook was imported to Microsoft SQL Server management studio for exploration
The following was observed: The total number of rows, distinct values, maximum, minimum and averages.
JOIN statements were used  to combine relevant data into one table.
After creating a summary of statistics, Interesting trends were investigated and information
saved to a table.

The merged workbook was also imported to RStudio.
Columns were made consistent and merged into a single data frame. 
Data was cleaned up and prepared for analysis. A descriptive analysis was done and a summary file was exported for further analysis.

SHARE Phase
After analyzing the data and gaining some insights, data visualization were created to 
share the findings. This Phase was guided by three questions:
1. Was the question "How annual members and casual riders use cyclic bikes differently?" answered
2. How did the findings relate to the first question?
3. Who is my audience? What is the best way to communicate?
4. Can the visualization help to share the findings?

To create an effective and efficient visualization:
1. First, sketched some ideas of visualization on a piece of paper
2. Chose the tool of choice
3. Created the data visualization.
4. Ensured clear meaning of the visualization.
5. Refined the visualization by applying deep attention to detail.

ACT Phase









